Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn the bitwise
Right Shift operator
Right shift operator is used to shift the binary sequence
to the right side by a specified number of positions
So see an sample take the number 40
But it is a decimal number so translated into a
binary sequence and we will get 1110 and write it in the
eight bit format
So we will get 00001110 Now let us perform the right
shift
So we have 14
Right shift 1
So the binary sequence will be shifted to the right
side by one position like this and the cells which
are empty will be marked zero at last
And the result will be 00000111 whose decimal equivalent is 7
So the result of 14 right shift 1 is 7
Now we have 14
Right shift 2
So we need to shift the binary sequence
Two positions to the right
So we have already shifted one time and now we
only need to shift once more
So we will get 00000011 whose binary equivalent is 3
So 14 right shift 2 is equal to 3
Now there is this one interesting thing
When we right shifted 14 to 1 position The
result was 7 which is equal to 14/2
And when we right shifted 14 to 2 positions the
result was 3 which is equal to 14/4
So there is this general formula that if we shift a
number by N times to the right the output will
be the number divided by 2^N
So see an example
Let the number be 128 and we need to
right shift by 5 positions
So by our formula it will be equal to
128 /2^5 that is
128 divided by 32 and we will be getting 4. Now see
a programme. In the main function first
we're declaring an integer var = 128 and
we are printing var/2 equal to var
Right shift 1 and 64 will be printed
And next we have var/4 = var
right shift 2 and 32 will be printed and next
print function will be printing var/8 = var
Right
Shift three and 16 will be printed and that is
how it works
So that's all and thank you for watching this video